---
layout: post
title: my response to charlottesville
date: 2016-08-16 01:00:00
description: Neutrality helps the oppressor, never the victim.
---

Growing up I had an obsession with understanding Nazi Germany.  It began when I learned about World War II during my sophomore year of high school. Most other students accepted it as a tragedy perpetrated by  evil human beings and moved on.  However, I had questions that were difficult to answer.  I questioned the fact that most of the Germans, including the Nazis, were like us: students going to school, parents going to work, people with full lives that had families and friends.  Why did they all of a sudden hate an entire race of people?  Didn’t those Nazi soldiers leading human beings to their deaths feel remorse?   But most importantly, why did a lot of them ignore what was happening around them and let these atrocities take place?  Even if they weren’t the ones leading them to their deaths, they didn’t help them?  After all, these people were former neighbors and friends. What caused these people to dismiss their own humanity, to turn a blind eye as the rights of people they knew were slowly stripped away and ultimately lead to their deaths?

I spent years asking these questions, reading as many books as I could, trying to get as much information as I could get my hands on to understand their thoughts.  And I can only come up with a general assumption as there’s really no former Nazi that’s going to stand up and say “Hey, I’m a former Nazi and here’s my story.”  There were the archetypal Nazis who completed atrocious acts due to hatred of Jewish people, disabled people, homosexuals and other people they deemed “unworthy of life.”   But I don’t believe they were the majority of Nazis, and the German citizenry as a whole. I believe that they were just a loud, vocal, and aggressive few.  The majority acted, or rather didn’t act, out of fear.  Fear for their lives, their families lives, their loved ones lives.  Fear that strikes you so deep in your heart you don’t do anything and turn a blind eye to that what is occurring around you refusing to stand up to what is wrong.  Fear that if you stand up, you will lose the comfort of your own life and therefore it’s okay to sacrifice another’s.

Since Donald J. Trump was elected as President, I took the stance that America would be fine.  We, as a nation, had been through worse, and we had always come out fine.  Because of this platitude I would tell myself, I never felt the need to stand up and speak -- to join the millions of women on their march on Washington, to stand with the protesters fighting against the Muslim ban, to show my support as LGBT rights were chipped away once again.  As friends asked me to join them in their fight, I offered empty words of support and went along in my life not truly engaging or participating.  After all, nothing Donald Trump had done truly impacted me and I was living in my safe, comfortable bubble.  I got to live in the comfort of my privilege as someone in the upper middle class where everyone in my family was a US Citizen and those issues did not directly impact me.

Then this past week, I watched on my laptop the events unfold in Charlottesville, VA, a place I lived for four years.  I watched as a group of loud, vocal, and aggressive few chanted about white supremacy.  I watched as a group of people fighting for the rights for people that have been fighting this fight for hundreds of years in America were run over by a car.  I watched as the President of the United States placed fault on “many sides.”  I watched as he also defended the group of people whose actions killed a woman and injured 20 more.

When I was learning about Nazi Germany, I used to ask myself: What would I have done in their place?  Would I stand up and do what I knew was right?  Or would I sit in my bubble and stay there because it was comfortable and I feared what was out there?  I wanted to believe that I would stand up to people who rallied around a platform of fear, who spread hatred like a disease, and who ultimately harmed and took the lives of innocents.  I wanted to believe that I would never sit by and watch what happened to others without saying anything.  Today, I realize I had the opportunity to be the person I wanted to be, and I failed.  I sat by and watched as the rights of various groups of people were slowly chipped away and I said nothing.  I pretended everything would be fine because my bubble was quite comfortable and my fear of breaking my bubble stopped me from speaking up.  However, like those in World War II who acted out of fear and did not speak out, there is no excuse.  To say nothing, to do nothing, is to encourage, support, and aid a group of people whose power comes from fear.

For that, I apologize to all of those who I haven’t stood up for.  For not marching next to you to the White House in protest of violation of rights.  For not rallying by you in Times Square as you fight for your families to be let into this country like mine was.  For not speaking out as your liberties were chipped away at.  For not standing in front of the Rotunda fighting hatred.  I have let you down as a friend, as a neighbor, as a loved one.  I am truly sorry for abandoning you and I promise you that I will no longer act out of fear and finally break my bubble.

<p class="quoteText"><strong><em>We must take sides. Neutrality helps the oppressor, never the victim. Silence encourages the tormentor, never the tormented. Sometimes we must interfere. When human lives are endangered, when human dignity is in jeopardy, national borders and sensitivities become irrelevant. Wherever men and women are persecuted because of their race, religion, or political views, that place must - at that moment - become the center of the universe.</em></strong></p>
<strong><em> - Elie Wiesel</em></strong>
