---
layout: post
title: three tips for your first software engineering job
date: 2018-08-29 01:00:00
description: I gave a lighting talk to Women Who Code NYC with the topic of "Your First Software Engineering Job" and decided to write it down
---

Recently, Venmo hosted <a href="https://www.meetup.com/WomenWhoCodeNYC/">Women Who Code NYC</a> for lighting talks with the topic of "Your First Software Engineering Job."  I was asked to speak on lessons I have learned during what I considered my first software engineering job.  I ending up compiling those lessons into a talk about three tips for your first software engineering job, which I will share with you now.  
<br>
<hr>
<br>
For some background about myself, I currently work at Venmo as a backend engineer working on features such as instant transfer and how money moves at Venmo.  But after graduating from UVA in 2015, my first job out of college was as a software consultant at Red Hat.  As a software consultant I acted as what I called a "software engineer for hire."  However, Venmo was my first officially titled "software engineer" role.  These tips were gathered from these two experiences.  
<br>
<h3>(1) take the time to read code</h3>
<br>
When I started at Red Hat, a mentor told me the best advice he could give me was to always take the time to read code.  This advice has held true and is my first tip.  Any time you go on a new project or work on a new part of the code base or with unfamiliar code take a day or two to just read code that is already there.  Taking the time to read code helps you understand the context better of why decisions were made the way they were, develop better questions, and gives you a better understanding overall.  
<br>
<h3>(2) step up, even when not asked</h3>
<br>
The best opportunities that have come to me are either a result of stepping up in various ways, whether that may be taking on work I wasn't asked to do, helping out when unasked, or straight up volunteering myself for a position.  Not only does this show people that you can do more but it also allows you to do work that excites you or allows you to explore different things that may not exactly be in your job description. For example if you are trying to learn a new technology and you know that there is a ticket that needs to be completed that you want to try, volunteer to do it.  The worst case is that someone say "no", but now they know that you are interested in doing work like that ticket.   The best case is that now you have the opportunity to do work that you want to do.  
<br>
Stepping up means you are not waiting for someone else to take notice of your skills or of what you want to do.  It means you are taking charge of your career path by telling other what you are going to do.  Sometimes you may wonder why you were not offered some role, project, or task that you wanted to be on, it is simply because they did not think of you not that you are not qualified.  When you do step up however, you are putting your hat in the ring not waiting for someone else to do it for you.  
<br>
<h3>(3) culture matters</h3>
<br>
When I was interviewing out of college, I spent a lot of time looking at companies and I knew that culture mattered to me, but I didn't know what culture meant to me.  Since then I have determined a few things that matter to me now.  
<br>
First, mentorship and collaboration are incredibly important.  I want to work for a company where people want to help others succeed because when others succeed so do you.  Furthermore, mentorship and collaboration is not a one-way street, often it is an opportunity to expand your viewpoints and learn from everyone -- not just those more senior.  
<br>
Second, I want to work at a company with people I want to spend my time with and I am genuinely happy to see every day.  I realized that I spend more time at my job than really anywhere else in my life and I wanted to work with people who I would be excited to see every day.  It are these interactions that make even the most difficult day at work worthwhile.  
<br>
Finally, I want to work with people that are motivated and excited to be doing what they are doing.  I love working with people that are passionate about what they are building and the company they work at.  Sometimes this means they may not agree with every decision and there may be tough days, but it means that they care and they are excited and ready to make the product better and team better.  
<br>
These are the things in culture I am looking for.  However, what you want may be different, and that is okay.  Figure out what you want in terms of culture and look for a company that embodies it.  
<br>
<br>
These are just some of the things I have learned over my past three years of working.  Hopefully, you will find these tips helpful.
